Set up AutoML Vision
AutoML Vision provides an interface for all the steps in training an image classification model and generating predictions on it. Start by enabling the Cloud AutoML API.

Open the navigation menu and and select APIs & Services > Library. In the search bar type in "Cloud AutoML API". Click on the Cloud AutoML API result and then click ENABLE.

This may take a minute. You should now be on the following page (ensure that the MANAGE button appears and API enabled is also displayed):

AutoMLEnabled.png

Next you will need to issue each of the commands that below appear in the GCP Console. In Cloud Shell paste these commands to create environment variables for your Project ID and Qwiklabs Username, replacing <QWIKLABS_USERNAME> with the user name you logged into the lab with:

export PROJECT_ID=$DEVSHELL_PROJECT_ID
export QWIKLABS_USERNAME=<QWIKLABS_USERNAME>

Now, create a Storage Bucket for the images you will use in testing. Create one by running the following command:

gsutil mb -p $PROJECT_ID \
    -c regional    \
    -l us-central1 \
    gs://$PROJECT_ID-vcm/

Leave your Cloud Shell window open for additional steps to follow.

Now open a new browser tab and navigate to the AutoML UI.

You will be taken to the AutoML Vision Datasets page once the APIs are verified.

automl.png

Upload training images to Google Cloud Storage
In order to train a model to classify images of clouds, you need to provide labeled training data so the model can develop an understanding of the image features associated with different types of clouds. In this example your model will learn to classify three different types of clouds: cirrus, cumulus, and cumulonimbus. To use AutoML Vision you need to put your training images in Google Cloud Storage.

In the GCP console, open the Navigation menu and select Storage > Browser:

b91e6a77309137cf.png

Once there, you should see the bucket from the last step.

Before you add the cloud images, create an environment variable with the name of your bucket by running the following command in Cloud Shell, replacing YOUR_BUCKET_NAME in the command below with the name of your bucket:

export BUCKET=YOUR_BUCKET_NAME

The training images are publicly available in a Cloud Storage bucket. Use the gsutil command line utility for Cloud Storage to copy the training images into your bucket:

gsutil -m cp -r gs://automl-codelab-clouds/* gs://${BUCKET}

When the images finish copying, click the Refresh button at the top of the Cloud Storage browser. Then click on your bucket name. You should see 3 folders of photos for each of the 3 different cloud types to be classified:

autoML_bucket_folders.png

If you click on the individual image files in each folder, and then click once more when you see the URL, you can see the photos you'll be using to train your model for each type of cloud.

Create a dataset
Now that your training data is in Cloud Storage, you need a way for AutoML Vision to access it. You'll create a CSV file where each row contains a URL to a training image and the associated label for that image. This CSV file has been created for you; you just need to update it with your bucket name.

Run the following command to copy the file to your Cloud Shell instance:

gsutil cp gs://automl-codelab-metadata/data.csv .

Then update the CSV with the files in your project:

sed -i -e "s/placeholder/${BUCKET}/g" ./data.csv

Now you're ready to upload this file to your Cloud Storage bucket:

gsutil cp ./data.csv gs://${BUCKET}

Once that comand completes, click the Refresh bucket button. Confirm that you see the data.csv file in your bucket.

csvfile.png

Navigate back to the AutoML Vision Datasets page.

automl.png

At the top of the console, click + NEW DATASET.

Type "clouds" for the Dataset name.

Leave "Single-label Classification" checked.

Click CREATE DATASET to continue

dataset1.png

On the next screen you will choose the location of your training images (the ones you uploaded in the previous step)

Choose Select a CSV file on Cloud Storage and add the file name to the URL for the file you just uploaded - gs://your-project-name-vcm/data.csv. You may also use the browse function to find the csv file. Once you see the white in green checkbox you may select CONTINUE to proceed.

datasetfiles.png

After you are returned to the IMPORT tab, navigate to the IMAGES tab. It will take 8 to 12 minutes while the image metadata is processed ("Running: Importing Images" will appear on the screen). Once complete, the images will appear by category.

Inspect images
Next proceed with a brief examination of the images.

imagesinspection.png

Try filtering by different labels in the left menu (i.e. click cumulus) to review the training images:

44f615aeaccfdd8e.png

Note: If you were building a production model, you'd want at least 100 images per label to ensure high accuracy. This is just a demo so only 20 images of each type were used so the model could train quickly.

If any images are labeled incorrectly you can click on them to switch the label or delete the image from your training set:

imagedetail.png

To see a summary of how many images you have for each label, click on LABEL STATS. You should see the following pop-out box show up on the right side of your browser. Press DONE after reviewing the list.

labelstats.png

Note: If you are working with a dataset that isn't already labeled, AutoML Vision provides an in-house human labeling service.

Train your model
You're ready to start training your model! AutoML Vision handles this for you automatically, without requiring you to write any of the model code.

To train your clouds model, go to the TRAIN tab and click START TRAINING.

starttraining.png

Enter a name for your model, or use the default auto-generated name.

Leave Cloud hosted selected and click CONTINUE.

train1.png

For the next step, type the value "8" into the Set your budget box and check "Deploy model to 1 node after training." This process (auto-deploy) will make your model immediately available for predictions after testing is complete.

Click START TRAINING.

SetBudget8.png

Training this dataset will take around 55 to 90 minutes to complete. The total training time includes node training time as well as infrastructure set up and tear down.

Evaluate your model
After training is complete, click on the EVALUATE tab. Here you'll see information about Precision and Recall of the model. It should resemble the following:

evaluatetab.png

You can also adjust the Confidence threshold slider to see its impact.

Finally, scroll down to take a look at the Confusion matrix.

confusionmatrix.png

This tab provides some common machine learning metrics to evaluate your model accuracy and see where you can improve your training data. Since the focus for this lab was not on accuracy, move on to the next section about predictions section. Feel free to browse the accuracy metrics on your own.

Generate predictions
Now it's time for the most important part: generating predictions on your trained model using data it hasn't seen before.

There are a few ways to generate predictions. In this lab you'll use the UI to upload images. You'll see how your model does classifying these two images (the first is a cirrus cloud, the second is a cumulonimbus).

First, download these images to your local machine by right-clicking on each of them (Note: You may want to assign a simple name like 'Image1' and 'Image2' to assist with uploading later):

a4e6d50183e83703.png

1d4aaa17ec62e9ba.png

Navigate to the TEST & USE tab in the AutoML UI:

On this page you will see that the model you just trained and deployed is listed in the "Model" pick list.

Click UPLOAD IMAGES and upload the cloud sample images you just saved to your local disk (you may select both images at the same time).

testanduse.png

When the prediction request completes you should see something like the following:

output1.png

output2.png

Excellent - the model classified each type of cloud correctly!

